This analysis started with the often quoted misconception that the United States relies too heavily on foreign energy and too much of the energy used in the United States is imported. I gathered data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration. The data showed monthly imports and exports of total energy from the U.S. since 1973. I used this data to intially create an ARIMA (autoregressive integrated moving average) model to predict what the future of energy importation and exportation will look like. I quickly ran into issues with a strict ARIMA model due to the seasonality of energy consumption in the U.S. Once I realized how seasonal the data is, I created a SARIMA model, that accounted for that seasonality. Another issue I had to account for in my model building is stationarity of the data I was working with. The data was not stationary, therefore I had to apply differencing to the data in order for the SARIMA model to accurately forecast what the future of energy trade in the U.S. would look like.

At this point, you may be asking yourself, "why should I care about the imports and exports of energy in the U.S.?" The idea of "energy independence" leads to many policy decisions at the national level, from leasing of public land for oil drilling to tariffs on energy importation. Predicting the future of trade balance in US energy can be a useful tool when making policy decisions moving forward.

The results of the SARIMA model showed that just prior to 2010 energy imports in the US peaked and have since then stabilized around just more than 1.5 quadrillion BTU's. While at the same time, US energy exports have grown continually year over year since 2010, maxing out at over 3 quadrillion BTU's by 2027. Meaning, if the US continues on its current trajectory, it will be exporting twice as much energy as it imports by 2027, which is rather soon. 
